feat(blog): add Introducing Spokestack Tray blog post (#105)
spokestack/spokestack-website: content/blog/introducing-spokestack-tray/index.md

---
title: Introducing Spokestack Tray – a Turnkey Voice Interface for Mobile Apps
date: '2020-09-21'
description: 'Today we announce Spokestack Tray: a UI component for iOS, Android, and React Native making it easy to add Spokestack to any mobile app. Create your own Independent Voice Assistant!'

> tags: Engineering, Product

Reviewer: Not sure this is an engineering post, but 🤷 .

author: mike
draft: false
---

> Today we are excited to announce our latest developer feature: Spokestack Tray, a mobile library that lets developers easily add a voice interface to their existing app through a UI component that opens inside the application. Spokestack Tray incorporates our voice services, such as a wakeword, speech recognition, natural language processing, and custom text-to-speech voices, into one easy-to-add package along with any existing mobile application. We've built a demo, the Bartender mobile app, that uses Spokestack Tray.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Today we are excited to announce our latest developer feature: Spokestack Tray, a mobile library that lets developers easily add a voice interface to their existing app through a UI component that opens inside the application. Spokestack Tray incorporates our voice services—wakeword, speech recognition, natural language processing, and custom text-to-speech voices—into one component that's easy to add to any mobile application. We've built a demo, the Bartender mobile app, that uses Spokestack Tray.
```

Here’s a video of Spokestack Tray working in our demo Bartender app:

`vimeo: [Spokestack Tray Demo](459905947)`

Download the Bartender app and try Spokestack Tray on your own phone:

> iOS: [https://apps.apple.com/us/app/get-the-bartender/id1530425843](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/get-the-bartender/id1530425843)

Reviewer: I would put these in bullets and just make the platform name the link text, but meh.

### Getting started with Spokestack Tray

We want to make it as easy as possible for you to get started with Spokestack Tray. Here are the steps to get a prototype up quick:

1. [Sign up for a Spokestack account](/create)
2. Check out the documentation for [React Native Tray](https://github.com/spokestack/react-native-spokestack-tray) or [iOS Tray](https://github.com/spokestack/spokestack-tray-ios)
3. Follow a tutorial: [Spokestack Tray iOS Tutorial](/blog/integrating-spokestack-in-ios) or [Spokestack Tray React Native Tutorial](/blog/integrating-spokestack-in-react-native)
4. Get help in our [Spokestack Tray Help](https://forum.spokestack.io/t/spokestack-tray/56) forum

For folks who are new to building voice applications, we have a [video overview of voice concepts](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wbJ8fZh-iQw) as well as documentation of [voice developer concepts](/docs/Concepts) as they relate to Spokestack.

### Customizing Spokestack Tray

> At Spokestack, we believe flexibility and customization are keys to building successful conversational interfaces. We have a Figma template for Spokestack that we also used for Bartender, and you can use it to customize your app. We will be adding more design resources and tools over the next few weeks. Additionally, we help you further customize your app with custom wakewords, TTS, and your own cloud or on-device NLU model.

Reviewer: I thought we were linking the Figma template here...or was that a separate template on the docs landing page?

Reviewer 2: Yes, we are...just waiting on Figma to approve our community request.

> At Spokestack, we believe flexibility and customization are keys to building successful conversational interfaces. We have a Figma template for Spokestack that we also used for Bartender, and you can use it to customize your app. We will be adding more design resources and tools over the next few weeks. Additionally, we help you further customize your app with custom wakewords, TTS, and your own cloud or on-device NLU model.

Author: ```suggestion
At Spokestack, we believe flexibility and customization are keys to building successful conversational interfaces. We will be adding more design resources and tools over the next few weeks. Additionally, we help you further customize your app with custom wakewords, TTS, and your own cloud or on-device NLU model.
```

### Want a free wakeword, NLU training, and custom TTS?

> After you get a demo up and running, let us know if we can build a custom wakeword or TTS for your mobile app. We’ll hook up the first three developers who show us a working version of Spokestack Tray in their mobile app with a free wakeword, NLU training, and custom TTS. [Email us](mailto:hello@spokestack.io) your working demo and we’ll help you add these features to your app so you can publish it live.

Reviewer: "email us your demo is a little vague"—should we ask for a link to a repo, a beta invite, or something else?

Reviewer 2: I was thinking we could ask for a link to their repo or to Testflight, etc. through email.

### What's next?

> Expect an update on design tools, the Android library, and additional tutorials soon. Follow us on [Twitter](http://www.twitter.com/spokestack) for all updates. Can't wait to see how people use Tray with their mobile apps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Expect an update on design tools, the Android Tray library, and additional tutorials soon. Follow us on [Twitter](http://www.twitter.com/spokestack) for all updates. Can't wait to see how people use Tray with their mobile apps.
```

> Expect an update on design tools, the Android Tray library, and additional tutorials soon. Follow us on [Twitter](http://www.twitter.com/spokestack) for all updates. Can't wait to see how people use Tray with their mobile apps.

Author: ```suggestion
Expect an update on design tools, the Android Tray library, and additional tutorials soon. Follow us on [Twitter](https://www.twitter.com/spokestack) for all updates. Can't wait to see how people use Tray with their mobile apps.
```
